# Statistical Analysis using Excel
Road accident casualty analysis
							

<p align="justify">Road accidents are unpredictable events since they often happen suddenly and result in injuries that may be fatal. Even though it is very hard to forecast such an event, we can acquire a general idea of the different categories that are more susceptible based on historical data. This includes identifying the casualty trend through time, sharing the contribution of each category of road users, and doing a sex-based analysis to determine whether men and women are equally susceptible to this phenomenon. The descriptive analysis enables us to spot patterns and compare the average casualty rates for men and women, as well as for years, road users, and ages, to gain a general understanding of the effects on each parameter. Calculating the skewness and kurtosis of the data also allows us to see how it is distributed and shaped. By using the Central Limit Theorem, the inferential analysis that was performed on the data indicated that the actual shape of the data curve would be rightly skewed. I estimated the confidence intervals and conducted hypothesis testing on samples of the average casualty based on sex and age group after outlier treatment and sampling. Our main findings conclude that men are more prone to road accidents. More than 50% of fatalities on the road are caused by car users, making this the most dangerous mode of transportation, followed by pedestrians. The average trend in fatalities is nonlinear. Z-test and ANOVA were used for the hypothesis test, and both methods rejected the null hypothesis. By conducting a descriptive study of the population, it was determined that rejecting the null hypothesis represented the best possible outcome without making any type I or type II errors.</p>

Dataset source URL	https://data.cso.ie/table/ROA16
